# Week eight

A bit late this week, due to being busy & away for things. I've still go some work done though.

This last week I had my mid-project demo, which involved showing off what work I've done so far to a university supervisor & also gave an opportunity to get some feedback & suggestion for direction. It went fairly well! I think the project is fairly mature now & decently polished, so it was a relatively painless experience. The main feedback item was that I needed some more work on manoeuvre modifiers & a more 3D set of manoeuvres - ones that actually use the yaw capability of components. So this week I've worked on those things.

Now OLANdroid supports the backtick operator, which allows parts of manoeuvres to be scaled. To implement this, I've added a 'group' attribute to components in the manoeuvre catalogue, which allows components to be put into groups. These attributes are then interpreted into lists of indices of components within the manoeuvres. To scale one of these groups, we scale the components at the indices of the chosen group.

The backtick operator is interpreted in the OLAN entry too. To make these modifiers clearer, I've added buttons to append one of the chosen ones into the OLAN string in the build flight activity, & the same has been done for the plus operator. The actual UI for this needs improving a bit, as it's a bit clunky right now, but it's functional.

On the 3D end of things, I've added a test manoeuvre (can't find the OLAN for it, though I think it exits) for a manoeuvre which has a vertical yaw about turn. I need to find some more formal things for this.

In the next week, I plan on improving the animation choices. I've been trying to work out an effective design for supporting different methods of animation, but haven't come to any conclusions yet. I hopefully will do next week!

& of course, [this week's demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9j3s8z15RwM&index=9&list=PLFyZMqjrwPwacU4OqQyIyKR6jJGp6z2Kw).
